- So we've talked a little bit
about reactive security with Spring.
Now it's time to go implement it
using a very basic web service
so that we can show how the behavior is similar
and how it's different.
So here in our IDE, the first thing I want you to do
is go to the Exercise files and pull down
the latest exercise files at the start of this video
because I have created a simple reactive application
for you to use.
And basically, it's the concept of rolling dice.
So there's a greeting API and there's a roll API.
The roll API will roll two die
and determine the total of those die.
Let's go ahead and start this application
and see what I mean.
So we're going to start up our bones application.
Now I'm going to jump into terminal.
So I'm going to use a tool called HTTP pie.
You can use Curl if you don't have this
or you don't want this tool.
I find it to be a very valuable tool to use
so I use it quite often.
We would go to localhost:8080/hello.
And we get a response back.
And if we go to the same URL,
but this time slash roll,
you'll see we get two dice that were rolled at random
and the total value of those,
we can roll again two more dice, et cetera.
So, let's secure this,
and the way that we're going to secure this is,
when someone comes to us and says, hello,
we want to respond, regardless of the situation.
But when they come to us and ask to roll,
we want to make sure that they're an admin user.
So let's jump back into our IDE.
Open up the bones application and go to the Palm.
And the first thing we need to do
is we need to add our security dependency.
So Spring Boot starter security,
from org Spring framework Boot will run on Maven.
Execution on that to pull down the dependencies.
And once that is done,
let's go to source main Java base package,
bones application.
And normally I would put this into separate security config,
for this example, we're just going to put it here.
You've seen all of that before.
What is different here is that we need to do
an enable web flex security on this
to enable our security module.
And now we will configure it.
So we will create a bean.
And that bean is a our map reactive user details service
that we just talked about.
And we will call this user details service.
And now let's build this.
So we're going to create a list of user details
Call it user details,
and it's going to equal a new array list.
Import everything.
Now we will build these.
So we're going to do a user details dot add,
and we will add a user dot with default password encoder.
This is deprecated, it's deprecated because it's plain text,
we should never use it.
Granted we should never really be using
default password encoder or in memory, but we're fine here.
So we're going to build that.
But before we actually execute the build,
we need to add a username
and we will use our tried and trust user named User.
And the password, once again, we will use password.
And the roles on this will be user.
Now let's do all of that again.
But this time our username is going to be admin
and our roles will be user and admin.
And now we can return
a new map reactive user detailed service
passing it to user details.
Great, so we've got our users in,
but we still haven't secured any routes.
Technically we have, right now everything is secured,
but that's not what we want.
We want to be very specific about what we secure.
So we will create an instance
of a security web filter chain.
And we will simply call the Spring security Filter chain.
It is going to take a server HTTP security object
that we would call HTTP.
Now in here, we will do an HTTP dot authorize exchange.
And we will do a path matcher,
and the path match will be a slash hello.
And we would permit all there.
Now we would call any exchange.
So everything other than hello,
which in our case is only one path, but anything else
that we were to build must have the role of admin.
And we want to use HTTP basic,
And we will return in http.build.
Excellent, we're good to go.
So let's restart our application, and once it's up,
we'll jump back to our terminal,
and we'll execute some of these commands again.
So let's go to hello.
We're unauthenticated, but we still got to response back.
Let's go to roll.
Now we got a 401, we're unauthorized
because we haven't provided any credentials.
So let's solve that with an authentication header.
And this gets base 64 encoded by HTTP pie.
You would have to do that if you're using Curl,
but we will do a user, password and we are forbidden.
That's what we expect.
So we have valid authentication credentials,
but we don't have permission.
So let's use our admin and the role worked.
So we've now enabled very basic Spring security
on a reactive web application.